what you want what you want you want hi
everyone and welcome to Nicko's kitchens
what you want Wednesday today we're
taking a request from s strawberry and
they sent me a request for Caesar salad
I'm actually making this follow mums
birthday so let's get started
first thing you want to do is start on
your Caesar salad dressing and the first
thing I want to put into the bowl is two
egg yolks
no whites just the yolks okay so
separate your eggs and just keep the
yolks next I want to put in some fresh
minced garlic just straight in to the
egg yolks next I want to put in some
Dijon mustard this gives this caesar
salad a really nice kick right at the
end and of course I'm going to put in
some anchovies now I'm using n chili
paste if you want to use real anchovies
that's fine I just find I get a better
flavor from the paste and of course I'm
going to add in some red wine vinegar
and this just helps balance the whole
dressing it gives it a real nice
tartness now this is very important make
sure you mix this part well okay because
what we're going to be doing is we're
going to be adding olive oil to this
dressing now if you don't do this right
the dressing is going to split okay so
what you want to do whisking all the
time very quickly don't stop in an
s-shape I want you to slowly add the
olive oil until there is none left
do not stop whisking once the oil has
run out season it well with salt and
pepper and it should be nice and creamy
just like this if you've emulsified that
olive oil and the egg properly like you
see here it'll be this beautiful thick
pale white creamy sauce just like you
see on the screen if it splits there you
can't save it you'll have to start again
now that our Caesar dressing is finished
put it aside and we're going to start on
our croutons now get a nice crusty bread
something like a sourdough or something
like that nice and crusty and nice and
soft on the inside you
going to be toasting these in the oven
so just cut them up into fairly
good-sized pieces you don't want them
too small arrange them on a baking tray
lined with baking paper I'm going to
dress them with some olive oil now you
want to put these into the oven only for
about 15 minutes at about 180 degree C
until they're nice and golden brown the
next thing I want to do is fry off our
bacon until it's nice and crispy so into
a hot pan no oil because we've already
got that fat on the bacon and that will
reduce down cook this until it's nice
and crispy now over a colander I'm just
washing our cause lettuce leaves now you
can use other lettuce if you wanted to
like an iceberg or something like that
but cause lettuce is traditionally
served with a Caesar salad so that's
what I'm using here today so just wash
it well make sure all the sands out
after my Bacon's fried I'm just draining
the excess oil with some paper towel I'm
cutting that bacon into about the same
pieces as the croutons not too small but
not too large either now it's time to
plate up the first thing you want to do
is arrange that cause lettuce
beautifully on the bottom there just
like that because we're going to be
putting all those ingredients almost
like a shell into that lettuce adding
the croutons now look at them they are
beautiful and golden brown lovely and
toasted nice soft centers that's what
you're after with your croutons I'm
adding the bacon and that's a salty
bacon just goes so well with it and of
course we're going to add over our
dressing that we've made and have a look
at that it is absolutely beautiful but
it's not finished yet we're going to of
course finish this off with some freshly
shaved parmesan cheese and have a look
at that absolutely beautiful the perfect
accompaniment to any lunch
absolutely beautiful now my mum is
actually trying this as we speak that
surfing is there don't think mine are
more gone wrinkly like hers joking
anyway guys if you want to make this all
the ingredients are below make sure you
give this a try it's absolutely
fantastic it's dead easy you'll never
ever go to another cafe again to make it
because you'll do it at home I'll see
you this Friday for fast food Friday you
take care and I'll see you then